---
id: NZBLoiCsf
type: post
layout: post
title: "Accelerate: Incentives, initiatives and credits to support the climate agenda"
permalink: /insights/us-newsletter-09-05-24-bipartisan-infrastructure-law-and-inflation-reduction-act/
thumbnail: /img/2024-silverado-specialeditions-03.jpg
date: 2024-05-08T23:00:00.000Z
author: ""
excerpt: ""
seo:
  ogimage: /img/ZetiSocialCard.png
---
The [Biden-Harris Administration](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2024-05-03/biden-gives-carmakers-a-break-on-tough-to-trace-ev-materials?srnd=politics-vp&sref=uFYGeRuc&embedded-checkout=true) has given automakers additional flexibility on battery mineral requirements for EV tax credits on some *crucial trace minerals* from China, including graphite. Automakers have been given an extra 2 years to shore up sourcing of graphite and other materials considered difficult to trace due to their origin. However, from 2025 onwards, plug-in cars containing critical minerals from businesses controlled by countries deemed a Foreign Entity of Concern (FEOC), such as China, will be disqualified for up to $7,500 tax credits. That said, the current rules allow automakers to obtain materials from foreign subsidiaries of privately owned Chinese companies in non-FEOC countries, such as Australia, that can count towards tax credit eligibility. This pragmatic approach has been welcomed by the *Alliance for Automotive Innovation* as it highlights China’s dominant position within clean-tech supply chains and the ongoing difficulty of onshoring and diversifying supply chains by the USA.

The [US Department of the Treasury](https://www.reuters.com/business/autos-transportation/us-issues-over-580-million-advance-ev-tax-rebates-auto-dealers-since-jan-1-2024-04-12/) has announced it has reimbursed auto dealers more than $580m in advance point-of-sale consumer EV tax credit since January 1st 2024. Prior to this, consumers could only unlock EV tax credits when they filed tax returns the following year; being able to transfer these credits at the point of sale essentially lowers the purchase price. This will continue to combat high upfront purchase prices and help ramp up EV adoption. The Treasury has stated more than 85,000 of the time-of-sale tax reports were for new EVs, with over 90% of those including advance payment requests for $7,500. More than 15,000 time-of-sale reports were for used EVs, with about 75% including advanced payment requests for $4,000.

[Bloomberg Green](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2024-05-08/world-extends-run-of-heat-records-for-an-11th-month-in-a-row?sref=uFYGeRuc) released a new analysis stating  the USA is successfully executing its mission to ramp up its EV infrastructure so far this year. Federal data shows that around 600 public fast-charging stations were installed in Q1 24, a 7.6% increase from Q4 23, with a total of approximately 8,200 quick-turn EV stations across America. Although the media rhetoric has been around a slowdown in EV adoption, the real news is the uptake in EV infrastructure deployment. This has been helped tremendously by the $5bn *National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure* program. This policy tailwind focuses on filling in the remaining gaps in the charging map. Another subsector helping ramp up EV infrastructure is the retail sector with Buc-ee’s and Wawa collectively opening 19 new charging stations in Q1 24.

The US Department of Transportation’s National Highway Traffic Safety Administration ([NHTSA](https://www.nhtsa.gov/press-releases/nhtsa-fmvss-127-automatic-emergency-braking-reduce-crashes)) has announced a new *Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard*. This new standard stipulates that from September 2029, all passenger cars and light trucks will need to possess automatic emergency braking (AEB), including pedestrian AEB. This stems from a provision in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to establish minimum performance standards requiring that all passenger vehicles be equipped with AEB. This standard also advances the Department’s National Roadway Safety Strategy, which was launched to address the national crisis in traffic fatalities and serious injuries. The NHTSA predicts this new safety standard will save at least 360 lives and prevent at least 24,000 injuries annually.

New data shows that the [Chevrolet Silverado EV 4WT](https://insideevs.com/news/716074/chevrolet-silverado-ev-fast-charging/), with the 24-module large battery pack (shared with the GMC Hummer EV), has the highest claimed peak charging power of any EV currently available in America. This EV also possesses an EPA range of 450 miles and can draw up to 350kW from a powerful charger. However, during a recent independent charging session, it exceeded that value and showed great consistency throughout its charging curve. Furthermore, the 200+ kilowatt-hour battery takes around 75 mins to charge entirely from flat to full which is impressive when compared to an SUV such as a Mercedes EQS.

The [US Department of Transport](https://www.theverge.com/2024/4/12/24128322/transportation-infrastructure-grants-climate-change) (DOT) has revealed it has given out $830m in grant funding to over 80 projects that aim to upscale infrastructure in an effort to combat climate change. The NOAA National Centres for Environmental Information (NCEI) released information in Q1 that showed climate change-related weather disasters have reached a record high in 2023, costing the American economy billions of dollars. There were 28 weather and climate disasters in 2023, surpassing the previous record of 22 in 2020. In light of this, the DOT has partnered with state, local and tribal governments to help fund projects from refurbishing aging bridges to expanding emergency evacuation routes. A significant amount of this grant funding comes from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and is being deployed on climate resilience improvement projects.

The US Department of Energy’s Federal Energy Management Program has published best practice guidelines for measuring zero-emission vehicles (ZEVs). This is to help federal agencies who are responsible for vehicle-level fuel reporting in the Federal Automotive Statistical Tool (FAST). The best (and easiest) practice is to use telematics data, as it provides accurate reporting of the total electricity consumption of the ZEV, ranging from charging time, the beginning and ending state of charge, and total kilowatt-hours added during the session. However, in the absence of telematics, there are [3 alternative options](https://www.energy.gov/femp/best-practices-federal-fleet-measurement-and-reporting-electricity-use-electric-vehicles); one of which  involves tracking electricity usage through networked electric vehicle supply equipment.

Ford Pro has begun taking orders for the enhanced-range version of the [Ford E-Transit](https://www.chargedfleet.com/10220779/ford-e-transit-ready-to-take-fleet-orders?utm_source=newsletter&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=20240501_1696:663180c18ea96aece607906c:ot_NL-CF-eNews-Wednesday-20240501&omid=1102505844&cid=64673b1281f8f9f0c9048d15). This new model has new dual onboard chargers which sees a 22% increase in the speed of charging than before when using Ford Pro’s 80A Series 2 charger. Furthermore, the Ford Pro charging software helps identify the optimal times to charge. This model has a greater range of up to 159 miles with 89 kWh of usable energy, supporting longer distances and increased capability for new use cases, like refrigerated delivery.

[Work Truck Solutions](https://www.automotive-fleet.com/10220639/q1-commercial-vehicle-report-inventory-jumps-93-year-over-year?utm_source=newsletter&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=20240502_1694:6633a494fa5eb99a24038fcf:ot_NL-AF-Enews-Thursday-20240502&omid=1102505844&cid=64672d1183f2f92bdd00e2c5) has released Q1 24 market data highlighting many key industry trends. One such interesting Q1 finding was that on-lot new vehicle inventory per dealer, continues an upward trajectory registering a 12.7% increase QoQ and 93.1% YoY. One of the main growth drivers behind this is medium-duty vehicles, which account for 52.4% of the on-lot inventory. Interestingly, new commercial EVs saw an encouraging material increase (albeit from a small base) in on-lot numbers, as it was up 51.5% QoQ and 67% YoY.

The [Biden-Harris Administration](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/24/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-sets-first-ever-national-goal-of-zero-emissions-freight-sector-announces-nearly-1-5-billion-to-support-transition-to-zero-emission-heavy-duty-vehicles/) has announced its first ever commitment to setting a national goal of transitioning to a zero-emissions freight sector for truck, rail, aviation and marine, alongside a commitment to develop a national zero-emissions freight strategy. This is a significant commitment as the EPA will make around $1bn of funding available for cities, states and Tribes to replace Class 6 and Class 7 heavy-duty vehicles (school buses, ZEVs, etc) via the Inflation Reduction Act. This funding will also help facilitate the adoption of infrastructure to charge, fuel and maintain heavy-duty zero-emission vehicles. The DOT has announced the first tranche of its $400m *Reduction of Truck Emissions at Port Facilities Grant Program* is aimed at improving air quality. There is also an intention to reduce pollution for truck drivers, port workers and families that live in communities surrounding ports, where air quality is critically poor. Although California is a leader in reducing carbon emissions, Californian [Senator Padilla](https://www.padilla.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/padilla-applauds-announcement-of-first-ever-national-goal-of-zero-emissions-freight-sector-and-nearly-1-5-billion-to-support-zero-emission-hdv-transition/%5d) came out strongly supporting this commitment, as the state hosts many cities with very poor air quality.

[](<>)

<!--\\[endif]-->

 <!--\\[if !supportAnnotations]-->\[[JS3]](#_msoanchor_3)<!--\\[endif]-->I think the text is fine.  For context here, there is a $7,500 tax credit for new EVs that transaction was completed 85,000 times.  Used EVs receive a $4,000 credit and that transaction was completed 15,000 times.

<!--\\[if !supportAnnotations]-->

<!--\\[endif]-->

<!--EndFragment-->