---
id: Weq1-WMO5
type: post
layout: post
title: "KORE-Blimey! "
permalink: /insights/weekly-news-roundup-22-06-23-kore-blimey/
thumbnail: /img/krakenimages-8rxmc8plx_i-unsplash.jpg
date: 2023-06-21T23:00:00.000Z
author: ""
excerpt: ""
seo:
  ogimage: /img/surprise.jpg
---
[Stellantis](https://insideevs.com/news/672645/stellantis-affordable-ev-186-miles-range/) intends to unveil a BEV, later this year, with a starting price below $27,000, with a driving range of around 186 miles (c300 km). This EV will be built under the Citroen brand and the model will bear the e-C3 mark and will be marketed somewhere between the Dacia Spring and the Opel Astra. The company is able to offer a low price point by offering the EV in 3 trim levels, each with a maximum of five options. This tactic has been deployed by other OEMs, such as Ford, in order to streamline the production process and increase profit margins.

In a [joint statement](<https://www.fastmarkets.com/insights/china-extends-nev-purchase-tax-breaks-to-2027#:~:text=China%20will%20extend%20its%20tax,NEVs)%20between%202024%20and%202027&text=The%20joint%20announcement%20was%20made,Technology%20on%20Wednesday%20June%2021.>), the Chinese Ministry of Finance, State Taxation Ministration and Ministry of Industry and Information Technology announced the extension of NEV tax credits. The current NEV tax exemption was pencilled to end on December 31st, 2023. However, China’s purchase tax exemption on NEVs will remain in place between January 1st 2024, to December 31st, 2027. Furthermore, between January 1st 2024 to December 31st 2025, the total exemption amount per unit will not exceed $4,179. The tax exemption, however, will be halved between January 1st 2026 to December 31st 2027. The market response has been positive, with industry consensus stating this should help increase (domestic) EV sales and have positive spillover effects on the raw battery materials market.

[SK Signet](https://theevreport.com/sk-signet-enhances-ev-charger-offerings-with-nacs-compatibility), a South Korea-based EV charging solutions company, has announced the inclusion of North American Charging Standard (NACS) connection capabilities in their future ultra-fast chargers. This is a significant decision, as it opens charging accessibility for (US) EV owners. This follows the news, earlier this month, that SK Signet opened its [manufacturing hub](https://eng.sk.com/news/sk-signet-celebrates-grand-opening-of-new-plano-based-ev-charger-manufacturing-facility) in Plano, Texas, which is designed to produce more than 10,000 ultra-fast chargers annually.

[NIO](https://cnevpost.com/2023/06/20/nio-secures-1-1-billion-investment-from-abu-dhabi-fund/) has secured $1.1bn in investment from an Abu Dhabi government fund to strengthen its balance sheet and support business growth. This investment comes at a good time, as NIO missed Q1 23 earnings expectations due to the Price War, US Fed rate hikes and geopolitical risks. All these factors have contributed to NIO shares falling by 85% since 2021. The Price War materially impacted NIO, as in Q1 23, gross margins fell to 1.5% compared to 14.6% in Q1 22. This capital injection should help smooth its cash flows and guarantee (short-to-midterm) future product developments.

[E.ON](https://www.horizonev.co.uk/eon-partnership/?mkt_tok=NTIwLVJYUC0wMDMAAAGMfVYdTuy76YHKQL3eXIslxhhrqCgVDOo9udGn3mpEUqpy2caALVK6VqFLxdLtipx25nMR1LbB-uKqk7hSxZHJOy2M5kTTTVhSoqmGn6c8clOYn6XKUg#:~:text=E.ON%20has%20signed%20a%20landmark%20agreement%20with%20leading,E.ON%E2%80%99s%20EV%20charging%20infrastructure%20services%20for%20fleet%20customers.) has signed an agreement with Horizon Energy Ventures (a low-carbon asset finance specialist) to offer funding solutions, as part of E.ON’s EV charging infrastructure services for fleet customers. Horizon’s range of financing options should help accelerate the rollout of fleet electrification by financing both the above-ground charging infrastructure as well as any required energy system enhancements.

[KORE Power](https://electrek.co/2023/06/09/kore-power-ev-battery-factory/?mkt_tok=NTIwLVJYUC0wMDMAAAGMfVYdT6PPbjFPtbUvVTcb7NqnXoV2DtVTuzYu7GWZtb_xDPMAh-B2B2z3iDj1mSJON8beG8pvHVUkr47ncQysDRnt2_Yj4uobvApwqp6szc7sTn3eKQ), a US-based developer of battery cells, has obtained a loan of $850m from the US Department of Energy, to help accelerate the construction of its EV battery factory in Arizona. The factory had already secured private financing, with an initial $75m tranche from Siemens Financial Services and Quanta Services (a network infrastructure firm) however the $850m loan will help accelerate the buildout. This factory is pencilled in to start delivering batteries by Q4 2024/Q1 2025.

[Rivian](https://www.reuters.com/business/autos-transportation/ev-maker-rivian-adopt-teslas-charging-standard-2023-06-20/) has announced it will adopt Tesla’s charging standard. This is great news for Rivian drivers, as they can access the biggest USA charging network. Rivian has stated that by H1 2024, customers will be able to access 12,000 Tesla Superchargers with adapters in the USA and Canada. This further solidifies Tesla’s position as the industry standard leader in EV charging, as this follows recent news flow of adoption by other entities such as GM, Ford BTC Power and the state of Texas.

[Octopus EV ](https://news.sky.com/story/octopus-spreads-tentacles-winetwork.-funding-for-ev-leg-12905477)has secured £150m funding from Pollen Street Capital, and this takes the total amount raised by Octopus EV in the past 2 years to £650m. This capital will be deployed to provide financing to expand its salary sacrifice scheme. Some of Octopus EV’s current clients include McLaren, Nando’s, and Zoopla.

[VinFast](https://electrek.co/2023/06/15/vinfast-pay-buyers-encounter-issues-with-evs/?TrucksFoT) has announced it will be introducing a new *Special Aftersales Policy* program, that includes compensation for buyers if they encounter issues with their vehicles. This, in part, stems from the VF 8 model, experiencing software bugs that resulted in the US National Highway Safety Administration issuing an alert stating a *software error may cause the multifunction head unit display to go blank*. This program will offer customers cash or a service voucher for any vehicle issues.

The [Welsh Government](https://www.gov.wales/15m-boost-will-increase-number-welsh-electric-vehicle-charging-points?mkt_tok=NTIwLVJYUC0wMDMAAAGMfVYdTk7SRQoxq8b5XgjEXbn8qgiQWdljDI9mO2dwDrJ5NZAiIzAtn-gm5H_o96DtBHTrK6zUyhFAMGNt0LK33MXB7wQNMWje4Vff0bCdFHulQHaJvw) has announced that it will be investing £15m into increasing the number of EV charging points across Wales. This new funding follows on from the £26m already invested in charging infrastructure across Wales since 2021. This has resulted in more than 1,600 charging points being made. This ramp-up in funding is, in part, due to the Government trying to hit its target of providing charging points for every 20 miles of the strategic trunk network across Wales by 2025.

***Deals***

[Standard Fleet](https://www.standardfleet.com/blog/standard-fleet-raises-7m-adds-major-customers?TrucksFoT), an EV fleet management startup, has raised $7m in a seed round led by UP2398 and Canvas Ventures. This capital will be used to grow the startup’s team, increase its product/service offerings, and expand its geographical reach.

[Stellantis](https://techcrunch.com/2023/06/15/stellantis-has-invested-about-one-third-of-its-300m-euro-fund-into-10-startups/?TrucksFoT) has invested around 1/3 of its €300m fund into 10 startups, such as Nauto, Beweelsociety and Trails Offroad. However, Stellantis did not disclose how much it invested in each company. It appears that Stellantis has taken a scattergun investing approach by investing in companies that are in battery technology, holographic augmented reality, sustainable manufacturing, and e-bikes.

[Everest Fleet](https://techcrunch.com/2023/06/14/uber-leads-20m-round-in-indias-everest-fleet-for-ev-expansion/?TrucksFoT), a Mumbai-based fleet management company, has raised $20m led by Uber. The company intends to use this capital to expand its footprint in major cities in India and to accelerate its transition to EVs, with a goal of having 10,000 EVs in its fleet by 2026.